TENDER LOVING &lt;TLCI>, STAFF &lt;STAF> EXTEND PACT
  Tender Loving Care Health Care
  Services Inc said it and Staff Buildiers Inc have extended the
  term of their merger agreement until May 31.
      Tender Loving Care also said &lt;Norrell Corp> agreed not to
  acquire any additional Staff Builders shares until September
  30, adding Norrell was paid 750,000 dlrs for the standstill
  arrangement. 
      Tender Loving Care said it agreed to buy the 610,000 Staff
  Builders common held by Norrell, about 19.1 pct of those
  outstanding, for 6,950,000 dlrs immediately prior to the
  consummation of the merger.
      Tender Loving Care said the extended merger agreement
  continues to provide for the exchange of 1.6 of its shares for
  each Staff Builders share outstanding.
      As announced February 26, the Staff Builders shareholders
  meeting to vote on the merger, originally convened and
  adjourned December 23, will be reconvened on April 22.
      Tender Loving Care said its payment to Norrell will include
  1,950,000 dlrs in cash and five mln dlrs of a new series of
  eight pct Tender Loving Care convertible preferred.
      Tender Loving Care said it and Staff Builders have filed a
  revised registration and proxy statement with the Securities
  and Exchange Commission. Upon clearance of the revised proxy
  statement by the commission and its distribution to Staff
  Builders' shareholders, that company's management will continue
  to solicit proxies for approval of the merger.
      Tender Loving Care said it will have the power to vote
  about 15.8 pct of Staff Builders' shares at the adjourned
  meeting with a spokesman explaining that this represents the
  proxies held by Norrell, which started buying the stock after
  the record date for the meeting.
      In addition, Staff Builders officers and directors own
  about 13.8 pct of its stock and have agreed to vote in favor of
  the merger.
      Accordingly, the vote of an additional 37.1 pct of the
  outstanding shares will be required to approve the merger,
  Tender Loving Care said.
  

