U.S. TREASURY PROPOSES SOME S. AFRICAN IMPORTS
  The Treasury proposed allowing 
  temporary imports of South African uranium ore and uranium
  oxide until July 1 under certain conditions pending
  clarification of anti-apartheid laws passed by Congress last
  fall.
      The proposal to be published in the Federal Register next
  week requests written congressional and public comment within
  60 days and deals with uranium ore and oxide that is imported
  for U.S. processing and exporting to third countries.
      The Treasury said it proposed allowing the temporary
  imports because it felt Congress had not intended when it
  passed the comprehensive South African sanctions bill last fall
  -- overriding President Reagan's veto -- to hurt U.S. industry.
      "The domestic uranium conversion industry and the federal
  government's enrichment industry could be seriously injured in
  a manner not intended by Congress if the . . . import ban on
  uranium ore and oxide were implemented to bar imports for
  processing and export through a mistaken interpretation of the
  act," the Treasury brief said.
      The Treasury said an outright U.S. ban of uranium ore and
  oxide might cause foreign electric utilities to divert their
  South African origin ore and oxide to other countries including
  the Soviet Union for processing.
      Treasury said it would allow imports of the South African
  ore and oxide until July 1 for processing and re-export
  "provided that the imported ore or oxide is accompanies by a
  license for importation issued by the Nuclear Regulatory
  Commission."
      The Treasury brief also proposed allowing U.S.-origin goods
  to be imported temporarily from South African state-controlled
  organizations for repair or servicing in the United States.
      "The U.S. Customs will allow such importation to be made
  under bond," the brief said.
      The South African sanctions law, enacted by the United
  States to protest the apartheid laws of racial segregation
  practiced by South Africa's white minority government,
  prohibited imports of uranium ore and oxide, iron and steel,
  coal and textiles at the end of 1986.
  

