ROWNTREE REPORTS PRETAX PROFIT AT 84 MLN STG
  Rowntree Mackintosh Plc &lt;RWNT.L>
  announced it made a pretax profit of 84 mln stg in the 53 weeks
  ending January 3, 1987, compared with 79.3 mln stg in the
  previous year.
      Turnover was up to 1.29 billion stg from 1.2 billion. A
  final dividend of 9.2p was proposed, after a final 8.2p last
  year. Earnings per share rose to 35p from 34.8p.
      The results were broadly in line with market expectations,
  leaving shares at 499p in early trading, up one pence from
  yesterday's close, but slightly off pre-announcement opening
  levels.
      Profit on ordinary activities after tax was 66.2 mln stg,
  up from the previous year's 60.7 mln.
      The U.K. Remained Rowntree's largest centre for trading
  profits, accounting for 47.9 mln stg, up from 45.3 mln in 1985.
  Profit from its second largest geographical area, North
  America, slipped to 34.7 mln stg from 37.2 mln. North American
  profits were affected by the fall of the value of the dollar.
      Operations in continental Europe made 7.8 mln stg in
  trading profit, up from 3.4 mln, with 4.0 mln stg made in
  Australasia, up from 2.3 mln, and 11.3 mln stg from the rest of
  the world, against 13.1 mln in the previous year.
      Extraordinary items amounted to a 11.3 mln debit after a
  16.5 mln debit previously. A company spokesman said this
  represented additional provisions for the cost of
  rationalisation plans announced in earlier years.
      Rowntree expects North American operations will this year,
  ahead of company expectations, be of the same order as those
  from the U.K. And the rest of Europe combined, the statement
  said. A spokesman said no specific figures had been forecast.
      Acquisitions will continue to be sought worldwide,
  including further moves in the speciality retailing business
  which Rowntree first entered in 1983, the statement said.
      Rising profit from Europe this year was forecast by
  chairman Kenneth Dixon in a statement. He added the performance
  of seven businesses bought last year was encouraging.
      The U.K. Confectionery side gained market share and
  increased trading margins. The Sun-Pat British grocery concern
  increased profit and Rowntree's small health food business,
  Holgates, raised earnings 10-fold, the statement said.
      Offsetting factors included currency movements, which cost
  the company nearly 5.0 mln stg. Sales tax hurt Canadian profits
  on confectionery operations, and the company faced strong
  competition in the U.K. Snack and Mid East export markets.
  

