U.S. PRODUCER PRICES RISE 0.1 PCT IN FEBRUARY
  The U.S. Producer Price Index for
  finished goods rose 0.1 pct on a seasonally adjusted basis in
  February, the Labor Department said.
      The increase came after a 0.6 pct increase in producer
  prices in January.
      Higher energy prices were primarily responsible for the
  increase in February, though they rose at a slower pace than
  they had in January, the department said.
      The finished goods index was up 0.1 pct from its February,
  1986 level.
      Before seasonal adjustment, the index for finished goods
  stood at 292.3 over its 1967 base of 100.
      Among finished goods, the index for energy products rose
  four pct in February after a 9.8 pct increase in January. But
  price increases slowed sharply for gasoline and home heating
  oil, the department said.
      There were some price declines, including a 3.4 pct fall
  for passenger cars and 1.3 pct for light trucks from January
  levels. This reflected expanded factory-financed rebates and
  discount loan programs, the department said.
      Before seasonal adjustment, the index for finished goods
  stood at 292.3 over its 1967 base of 100.
      Among finished goods, the index for energy products rose
  four pct in February after a 9.8 pct increase in January. But
  price increases slowed sharply for gasoline and home heating
  oil, the department said.
      There were some price declines, including a 3.4 pct fall
  for passenger cars and 1.3 pct for light trucks from January
  levels. This reflected expanded factory-financed rebates and
  discount loan programs, the department said.
      The index for consumer foods fell 0.5 pct after a 1.8
  pct drop in January as vegetables, pork and coffee cost less.
  The index for intermediate goods rose 0.5 pct following a sharp
  0.9 pct rise in January.
      The department said that energy prices again were the main
  reason, with the index for intermediate energy up 2.7 pct.
      Gasoline and diesel fuel prices were about five pct higher,
  half the 10 pct jump recorded in January.
      The durable manufacturing materials index edged down 0.1
  pct last month after jumping 1.0 pct in January as prices for
  steel, precious metals and copper stabilized.
      The department said lead and zinc prices fell, while
  hardwood lumber and cement cost more. The crude materials index
  rose 1.8 pct in February after a 2.9 pct rise in January. Crude
  energy materials were up 2.6 pct, much less than the 10 pct
  rise in January. Crude petroleum prices rose 4.4 pct last month
  after a sharp 19.7 pct rise in January.
      Price rises accellerated for logs and timber and tobacco,
  but fell for cotton, metal ores and copper and aluminum scrap.
      Among finished goods, gasoline rose 5.5 pct after a 15.7
  pct January increase, and fuel oil was up three pct in February
  after an 18.0 pct increase in January.
  

