BOLIVIA'S TOP UNION LEADER JOINS MINERS FAST
  Bolivia's top union leader today joined
  a hunger strike by 1,300 state employed miners and workers to
  press for higher wages he said.
      Juan Lechin Oquendo, the veteran secretary general of the
  Bolivian Labour Organization, COB, told reporters: "I am
  joining the fast to abide with our call for a hunger strike".
      Lechin, 83, became one of 12 COB leaders to join a hunger
  strike to protest against the austerity programme of the
  government of president Victor Paz Estenssoro.
      The striking leader began his fast as leaders of 9,000
  miners employed by the state corporation COMIBOL were due to
  star negotiations on ways to solve their conflict over pay.
      About 1,300 miners and workers entered today their fourth
  day of fast in union offices and Roman Catholic churches to
  press for a substantial hike in Bolivia's minimum monthly wage,
  which is 40 bolivianos (about 20 dlrs), COB leader Walter
  Degadillo said.
      "I will take part in the miners' negotiations because that
  does not force me to suspend my fast," Lechin told reporters.
      The COMIBOL miners' strike entered its fifth day to press
  for higher wages and more funds for the mining nationalised
  industry.
      About 20,000 miners, or two-thirds of the working force,
  have been laid off through the government's decision to
  streamline the deficit-ridden state corporation following a
  collapse in the international tin price.
      The government, faced with mounting social unrest against
  its economic policies, has called the miners' strike and fasts
  part of a campaign aimed at discrediting it during the visit of
  West German president Richard von Weizsaecker, who began a
  four-day visit last Friday.
      "I regret not being able to attend an invitation by
  president Weizsaecker to a dinner tonight because I am on a
  hunger strike," Lechin told reporters. "I also have to orga-
  nise the strike."
      Weizsaecker is hosting a dinner tonight for Paz Estenssoro
  and had invited both Lechin and Victor Lopez, the miners'
  federation top leader. Although lopez has not joined the fast,
  union sources said its unlikely he would attend the dinner.
  

