STORM BRINGS HEAVY SNOWS TO U.S. PLAINS
  The National Weather Service said a
  powerful winter storm centered over north central Oklahoma was
  spreading snow from western and central Kansas across much of
  Nebraska to southern and eastern South Dakota.
      Rain was reported across parts of Minnesota, Iowa, eastern
  Kansas, Missouri and eastern Oklahoma, with showers and a few
  thundershowers extending from Arkansas through the lower
  Mississippi Valley to Alabama and northwest Florida.
      Strong winds of 20 to 35 mph with some stronger gusts were
  reported across much of the Plains, causing considerable
  blowingand drifting snow. A blizzard warning continued this
  morning across most of western Kansas. A winter storm warning
  was issued this morning over central and northeast Nebraska.
      Weather advisories were posted for this morning over
  central Kansas and central and southeast sections of South
  Dakota where two to five inches of snow could accumulate.
      Locally heavy rains accompanied the storm over portions of
  the central Plains. Flash flood watches were issued for this
  morning across the eastern half of Kansas.
      A flood warning continues today for eastern Nebraska.
  Widespread lowland and small stream flooding is expected to
  continue over most of eastern Nebraska through Wednesday.
      Due to cold, damp and windy conditions, livestock
  advisories were posted this morning across central and
  southeast portions of South Dakota.
      As the storm moves north across the central Plains, winter
  storm watches were issued over south central South Dakota, late
  tonight and Wednesday over west central Minnesota.
      Elsewhere, a travelers advisory remains in effect this
  morning over northeast New Mexico and the Oklahoma and Tecas
  Panhandle for blowing snow and slick roadways and across the
  mountains and deserts of southern California for strong gusty
  winds of 25 to 40 mph. Gale warnings were issued for today
  along the central California Coast.
      Mostly clear skies extended from the Great Lakes and Ohio
  Valley through the central Appalachians to the central Atlantic
  Coast and New England.
  

