CYACQ CUTS CONDITIONS ON CYCLOPS &lt;CYL> BID
  Cyacq Corp, an investor group bidding
  for Cyclops Corp, said it amended its outstanding 92.50 dlrs a
  share tender offer for Cyclops to eliminate two conditions and
  modify a third one.
      The group, which includes Audio/Video Affiliates Inc and a
  unit of Citicorp &lt;CCI>, said it also obtained additional
  financing commitments, including an increased commitment from
  Citicorp Capital Investors Ltd.
      The conditions that were eliminated are Cyacq's request for
  non-public information about Cyclops that was previously
  provided to Dixons Group PLC and Cyacq's being satisified that
  the information provides an adequate basis for Cyclop's
  published financial projections.
      Cyclops has agreed to be acquired Dixons Group, which has a
  90.25 dlrs a share tender offer for Cyclops outstanding. Dixons
  said earlier it would allow the offer to expire tonight.
      The condition that was modified, which required Cyacq to be
  satisfied that break up fees or other obligations to Dixons
  were rescinded or ineffective, now says Cyclops shall not have
  paid any such fees or expenses to Dixons prior to the
  consummation of Cyacq's offer.
      Cyacq's amended offer expires midnight New York time on
  April three, 1987, unless extended.
      Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co and CIT Group/Business
  Credit Inc increased its tender offer commitment to 197 mln
  dlrs from 166 mln dlrs and its merger commitment to 275 mln
  dlrs from 250 mln dlrs.
      Additionally, the Citicorp unit and Audio/Video have
  increased their commitments to Cyacq to 185 mln dlrs. Of the
  new total, 150 mln dlrs has been committed by Citicorp.
      Cyacq said it estimates that it needs 407.5 mln dlrs to buy
  all Cyclops shares that may be tendered and pay related fees
  and expenses.
      It said it is seeking to arrange the balance of about 25.5
  mln dlrs necessary to complete the offer.
      All previously announced conditions regarding the lending
  group led by Manufacturers Hanover remain in effect, except
  that the loans are subject to the concurrent receipt by Cyacq
  of equity contributions and other financing of not less than
  210.5 mln dlrs for the tender offer facility and 213.5 mln dlrs
  for the merger facility.
      Cyacq also said the Citicorp unit had received no
  indications of interest in an alternative offer it had made
  from Dixons, Cyclops or Alleghany Corp &lt;Y>, which has agreed to
  acquire Cyclops' industrial group from Dixons.
      Under the alternative offer, the Citicorp unit, with
  Cyacq's approval, proposed to acquire the industrial group from
  Dixons.
  

