U.S. SUGAR QUOTA MAY BE EASED, CONGRESSMAN SAYS
  The United States may soon ease its
  1987 sugar import quota of one mln short tons by bringing
  forward to the third quarter some shipments scheduled for the
  fourth quarter of 1987, Jerry Huckaby, a leading Congressman
  representing sugar growers told Reuters in an interview.
      Huckaby, a Louisiana Democrat and chairman of the House
  subcommittee which deals with the sugar program, indicated the
  easing of the quota might be a way to calm the concern about
  the impact of the severe cut in U.S. sugar imports this year.
      "With imports coming down from 1.8 mln (last year) to one
  mln, there is legitimate concern about the impacts on Caribbean
  countries and the Philippines," Huckaby said.
      By bringing forward to the third quarter some imports, the
  quota would effectively be eased by about 250,000 tons.
      Huckaby said by simply bringing forward to the third
  quarter of the year sugar imports scheduled for the September
  to December period "we could get away without having to
  increase the quota."
      He noted that some in the sugar industry believe an
  increase in the quota is justified.
      Earlier this month, representatives of U.S. cane sugar
  refiners met with U.S. Agriculture Department officials to
  request a quota increase of at least 200,000 tons. The refiners
  said the increase is needed because the quota is so restrictive
  there could be some spot shortages of sugar in the U.S later
  this year, a refiner spokesman said.
      However, the official slaid the USDA replied only that it
  would consider the request.
      Following the refiners' request, representatives of the
  Florida sugarcane producers met with USDA to express opposition
  to any quota expansion, industry sources said.
      The statement by Huckaby, who as a representative from a
  sugar growing district in Louisiana is a leading architect of
  the current sugar program, indicates at least some grower
  officials are concerned enough to support an easing of the
  import quota, industry officials said.
      Any final decision on easing the quota must be made by the
  Reagan administration's interagency sugar policy group.
      Asked about possible quota changes, A USDA official said
  "As far as I know, changing the quota volume or the quota year
  is not under active consideration."
  

