U.S. SENATE TRADE LEADER CONCERNED ABOUT CANADA
  The chairman of the U.S. Senate
  committee with jurisdiction over trade said he was concerned
  about a resolution on bilateral trade negotiations adopted by
  the Canadian House of Commons last week.
      The resolution supports negotiation of a bilateral trading
  agreement with the United States while protecting Canadian
  political sovereignty, social programs, agricultural marketing
  systems, the auto industry and Canada's cultural identity.
      Senate Finance Committee chairman Lloyd Bentsen said the
  resolution may jeopardize the viability of the proposed free
  trade agreement between the two countries, which are each
  other's largest trading partners.
      "We need a truly free trade agreement, which means both
  countries have to work toward a deal that is mutually
  beneficial and comprehensive, a large agreement," the Texas
  Democrat said in a statement.
      "I do not question Canada's right to protect its political
  sovereignty or cultural identity. However, if these phrases
  mean the government of Canada means to take important economic
  issues off the table in these negotiations, I am deeply
  concerned," he added.
      Bentsen said Canada restricts trade 15 different ways while
  the United States uses only six trade restriction methods. He
  said if Canada proposes an agreement where both countries get
  rid of six methods of trade restriction, it would not be fair
  and might not win Senate approval.
      "I am deeply concerned that when the President visits Prime
  Minister (Brian) Mulroney next month, he will be presented with
  this kind of argument, and I hope he makes it clear -- as I did
  when I was in Canada -- that only a mutually beneficial
  agreement will be successful," Bentsen said.
      Reagan and Mulroney are scheduled to meet April 5-6 in
  Ottawa.
      Bentsen urged Mulroney to withdraw a proposal that would
  ban imports of independently produced films into Canada by
  non-Canadians, which the senator called a protectionist
  measure.
  

