U.S. CONSUMER PRICES ROSE 0.4 PCT IN FEBRUARY
  U.S. consumer prices, as measured by
  the Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers (CPI-U), rose
  a seasonally adjusted 0.4 pct in February after a 0.7 pct
  January gain, the Labor Department said.
      The CPI for urban wage earners and clerical workers (CPI-W)
  rose to 329.0 in February, the department said.
      Prices for petroleum-based energy rose sharply for a second
  consecutive month during February but by less than in January,
  the department said.
      Energy prices rose 1.9 pct last month after a 3.0 pct rise
  in January, accounting for one-third of the overall CPI rise.
      For the 12 months ended in February, the CPI rose an
  unadjusted 2.1 pct.
      Transportation prices rose 0.5 pct in February after a 1.5
  pct increase in January. Smaller price rises for motor fuels
  and declines in new car prices and finance charges were
  responsible for the moderation.
      Gasoline prices rose 4.2 pct last month after increasing
  6.6 pct in January, but were still 18 pct below levels of a
  year ago, the department said.
      Housing prices rose 0.4 pct in February after a 0.5 pct
  January increase, largely due to a rise in fuel oil prices.
      Fuel oil prices were up 4.4 pct in February after
  increasing 9.8 pct in January, but were still 15 pct below
  price levels of February 1986.
      Food prices rose 0.2 pct last month after a 0.5 pct January
  increase. Grocery store food prices were up 0.4 pct, the same
  as in January, but meat, poultry, fish and eggs cost less for a
  third consecutive month, the department said.
      Medical care rose 0.3 pct in February to a level 7.1 pct
  above one year ago, because of higher costs for prescription
  and non-prescription drugs and medical supplies, the department
  said.
      The index for apparel and upkeep rose 0.7 pct in February
  after a 0.4 pct increase in January. The department said the
  introduction of higher priced spring merchandise, particularly
  men's clothing, was responsible for the advance.
      Prices for other goods and services rose 0.7 pct in
  February following a 1.1 pct increase in January. Tobacco
  prices, up 0.9 pct after a 2.0 pct January increase, accounted
  for 30 pct of the index rise, the department said.
  

