BASS GROUP EMERGES AS POSSIBLE TAFT&lt;TFB> BIDDERS
  The Bass Group, once thought by
  analysts to be eager to sell its holdings in Taft Broadcasting
  Co, emerged as another potential bidder for the Ohio
  broadcasting company.
      The Bass Group, which holds 24.9 pct of Taft, said it had
  talked with other taft stockholders and some company managers
  and directors "concerning participation in a group to acquire
  control" of the company.
      The Bass group said it had talks with other Taft
  stockholders and members of Taft management about participating
  in a group to acquire control. The group, which is led by the
  wealthy bass brothers of Fort Worth, Texas, did not identify
  any of the other people with whom it had talks.
      Taft said Friday it would negotiate with its vice Chairman
  Dudley Taft on his group's 150 dlr per share or 1.38 billion
  dlr offer for the company.
      At the time, the company said it authorized its adviser,
  Goldman, Sachs and Co, to explore other takeover proposals and
  to supply financial data to other interested bidders.
      "If indeed, the reason Dudley Taft is no longer president
  is because the bass group tossed him out, I couldn't see them
  backing him on any deal," said one analyst, who asked not to be
  identified.
      "I think they wanted a way out. Now, this sounds like
  they're going to join the group and buy themselves out," said
  Edward Atorino, media analyst with Smith Barney, Harris Upham
  and Co.
      Analysts have speculated that Carl Lindner may be
  interested in acquiring the company. they speculated he may be
  one of the shareholders in talks with the bass group.
      Lindner, chairman of American Financial Corp, holds 16.2
  pct of Taft. He was not immediately available for comment.
      Analysts have said they are baffled by the strength of
  Taft's stock price compared to what they see as breakup values
  for the company.
      Several analysts had estimated a break up value of less
  than 150. One analyst said he believes it has a breakup value
  of 160 to 165 dlrs per share.
      Taft stock closed at 156-1/2, up 1-3/4.
      "They (investors) are saying here's another one - another
  family dispute," said Dennis McAlpine of Oppenheimer.
  

