DART SAID LIKELY SUPERMARKETS GENERAL SUITOR
  Dart Group &lt;DARTA> is likely seeking to
  buy Supermarkets General &lt;SGL>, analysts said.
      "There's been rumors that they've taken a position in the
  company, said Wood Gundie analyst Edward Comeau.
      Last year, Dart Group, owner of Auto Trak INc and Crown
  Books, competed against Kohlberg, Kravis to acquire Safeway
  Stores INc.
      The company later reached an accord under which it would
  buy 20 pct of the company after Kohlberg Kravis completed its
  leveraged buyout of the company.
      The company later sold its 20 pct stock for about 180 mln
  to 200 mln dlrs, according to analysts.
       Dart Group Corp was not immediately available for comment.
      Jerry Ballan, analyst with Conner Ballan division of Edward
  Viner and Co, said, "They &lt;Dart> has been rumored to be buying
  some other supermarkets as well, such as Stop and Shop."
      "My guess is that Supermarkets General does not want to be
  bought out," said Ballan.
      Analysts, however, said Supermarkets General is facing
  problems due to its Purity Supreme and Rickels operations,
  which might make it difficult to thwart a bid.
      Supermarkets General is expected to report about 1.70 dlrs
  a share compared to a 1.73 dlrs a share reported for 1985 on a
  post stock split basis.
      For the first quarter, Comeau predicts the company will
  earn 39 cts a share from 35 cts a share a year ago, and should
  earn about 2.05 dlrs for 1987.
      "But that estimation could go to a 1.80 dlrs easily, due to
  Purity Supreme in New England," Comeau said.
      He said competition among supermarkets is getting heated in
  that area and that the company has had difficulty with
  integrating Purity Supreme with its Pathmark store operations.
      Rickels, a home center business, has faced problems due to
  the state of that industry, and has reported lower returns as
  an operating unit, according to analysts.
      Analysts said that if Dart buys Supermarkets General it
  would probably divest the company's operations.
      Analyst Comeau said "supermarkets general may seek a
  combination with another supermarket company."
  

