DOLE SAYS 0/92 OPTION SHOULD BE CONSIDERED
  U.S. Senate Republican leader Robert
  Dole said Congress should consider legislation to apply the
  so-called 0/92 option to producers of major commodities.
      Dole told the National Corn Growers Association that he
  thought the proposal, supported by the Reagan administration,
  "should be seriously considered" because a refusal to do so could
  "play into the hands of those who want mandatory controls" placed
  on production.
      However, Dole did not say whether he would support the 0/92
  option, which would offer producers at least 92 pct of their
  income support payments regardless of how much they planted.
      The Senate Republican leader said the 0/92 option posed two
  problems. First, it is viewed, he said, by some as welfare. In
  addition, debate on the proposal could open up the whole farm
  bill, Dole said.
      Dole also repeated his call for an across-the-board export
  enhancement program, saying a subsidy offer to the Soviet Union
  could help improve U.S. relations with that country.
      Dole said that the United States has made the decision to
  trade with Moscow and that it's important to offer competitive
  prices.
      The senator predicted Congress would have to decide this
  year whether to require an expansion of the export subsidy
  program, which currently targets benefits to recapture markets
  lost to other suppliers which subsidize.
      Dole, who last year pledged to offer legislation to require
  a marketing loan for major crops but never did so, again called
  for the marketing loan for wheat and feedgrains.
      The Reagan administration's proposed farm policy changes
  "are not going anywhere" this year, Dole said, singling out the
  proposal to cut target prices 10 pct per year.
      Asked by reporters after his speech whether he sensed a
  shift in the State Department towards supporting an export
  enhancement initiative for the Soviet Union, Dole said he
  didn't see any change.
      Dole also said it would be a very close call in the Senate
  whether to open up the farm bill to general debate this year.
      Dole said he was encouraged by the selection of Republican
  David Karnes to replace the late Sen. Edward Zorinsky (D-Neb.)
  

