FED DATA INDICATE NO POLICY CHANGE LIKELY
  U.S. bank reserve, monetary and
  discount window borrowings data released by the Federal Reserve
  today clearly indicate that policy is "on hold" and may not be
  changed for weeks or even months, economists said.
      "The Fed is keeping policy at dead center and it is not
  about to change policy unless something fairly dramatic occurs
  on the economy," said John Williams of Bankers Trust Co.
      "These numbers contain no hint that a policy shift is in
  prospect, nor do economic or financial developments argue for
  policy change," said William Griggs of Griggs and Santow Inc.
      Fed data released today were all in line with economists'
  expectations and similar to the numbers of recent weeks.
      The Fed said net discount window borrowings in the two
  weeks ended Wednesday averaged 191 mln dlrs, up from 381 mln
  dlrs in the February 25 statement period, but little changed
  from 160 mln dlrs in the period before that.
      It said that banks' net free reserves in the latest two
  weeks averaged 660 mln dlrs versus 675 mln dlrs previously.
      Finally, the Fed said that the M-1 money supply fell 800
  mln dlrs in February, with the broader M-2 measure down 1.6
  billion dlrs and M-3 up an even three billion dlrs.
      Analysts said that M-1 last month grew at a negative 1.3
  pct annual rate compared with minus 0.7 pct for M-2 and actual
  positive growth of 1.0 pct annualized for M-3.
      February levels of M-2 and M-3 left the aggregates 18.2 and
  20.8 billion dlrs under their respective upper growth limits
  set by the Fed for 1987. The annual growth target for both is
  5-1/2 to 8-1/2 pct. There is no M-1 target.
      "In the near term, there is absolutely no reason for the
  Fed to ease policy, even apart from the slowdown in money
  growth," said Stephen Slifer, economist at Lehman Government
  Securities Inc.
      Economists generally expect a modest pickup in monetary
  growth in March after February's anemic growth rates. However,
  they stress that money growth will not be strong enough to
  prevent the Fed from dropping interest rates further if the
  economy shows evidence of weakness.
      Commenting on February's decline in the key M-2 aggregate,
  Slifer said the main cause was a 3.2 billion dlr drop in money
  market deposits at banks. This number has risen three to four
  billion dlrs a month for a long while, he said, so February's
  weakness is not likely to persist. Slifer expects modest M-2
  and M-3 growth rates of 3-1/2 to four pct during March.
      Griggs said that M-2 and M-3 in coming months should return
  to the five to seven pct annualized growth region and so
  continue to present no problem for the Fed.
      Economists said the Fed appears to be very comfortable with
  its current policy stance and it is likely to wait for perhaps
  several more months of economic data before deciding whether or
  not to ease its grip on reserves.
      Given the economy's fragility in many sectors, the analysts
  agreed that there is almost no chance that the Fed will choose
  to raise, rather than lower, interest rates when it next
  changes policy.
      "Discount window borrowings in the past week were about as
  low as the Fed can get them, although Fed funds held above six
  pct," said Williams of Bankers Trust. Funds averaged 6.12 pct
  in the week to Wednesday, up from 6.06 pct in the prior week.
      The Fed added reserves indirectly via one billion dlrs of
  customer repurchase agreements last Friday, 2.5 billion dlrs on
  Monday and two billion dlrs on Wednesday. On Tuesday, it added
  reserves directly through two-day System repurchases.
      Williams and Griggs agreed the Fed will let the funds rate
  be largely market-driven. They said it is focusing instead on a
  borrowings target of around 300 mln dlrs.
  

