433-460 Project, Word Sense Disambiguation System
Authors:Claire Taylor (cltaylor) and Charlotte Wilson (cawilson)
Date: 	October 2003

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
PATHS TO THE CORPORA:
	To run the system using the either of the parallel corpora
	you must ensure that the relevant path variables are set. 
	These can be set at the top of the parallelCorpus module 
	(parallelCorpus.py). 

	To run the system using the senseval corpus (in nltk) ensure 
	your NLTK_CORPORA environment variable is set. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
SYSTEM USAGE INSTRUCTIONS:

1.Interactive Mode
	This is the default mode and is most user friendly as it validates 
	user input. The system prompts the user interactively to 
	enter values for the system parameters. To run the program in 
	interactive mode type: 
		python senseDisambiguator.py

2. Command-line Mode  
	Input paramemters are not validated in this mode. System behaviour 
	with invalid input may be user unfriendly. 

	To run the program in command-line mode type with the default 
	settings type:

		python senseDisambguator.py sense_disambiguator 


	To run the program and override the defaults, you must enter values 
	for all parameters (described below). Type:
		
		python senseDisambguator.py sense_disambiguator [method 
			context_window replacement iterate corpus num_files 
			ambig_word num_senses]  
	

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
THE TRANSLATION MODULE:
The translation module is an important component of the system. Therefore
there are two demo methods for this module. 

1. Given an English word and a German sentence, get the German 
translation of the English word in the given sentence. 

	To run this with the default parallel corpus and number of files type:
		python senseDisambiguator.py translate [english_word 
			german_sentence]

	To run this, specifying the parallel training corpus and number 
	of files type:
		python senseDisambiguator.py translate [english_word 
			german_sentence corpus num_files]
	

2. Given an English word get its 20 most likely German translations. 

	To run this with the default parallel corpus and number of files type:
		python senseDisambiguator.py translate_list [english_word]

	To run this, specifying the parallel training corpus and number 
	of files type:
		python senseDisambiguator.py translate_list [english_word 
			corpus num_files]


-----------------------------------------------------------------------
INPUT PARAMETERS AND DEFAULTS: 

Default settings: method=1, context_window=3, replacement=50, iterate=10
		corpus=3, num_files=100, ambig_word="interest", num_senses=2 

method		An integer between 1 and 3 (inclusive), where 1 
		is naive bayes, 2 is naive bayes with bagging and 3 
		is the basecase. See the report (report.pdf) in the 
		assosciated documentation for more information on these
		WSD methods.	

context_window  A positive integer (including 0) or -1, specifying the size 
		of the context window that naive bayes uses (i.e. the 
		number of words either side of the ambiguous word). Entering
		-1 sets the context window to be the whole of the sentence
		in which the ambiguous word occurs.  

replacement     The number of training instances that are to be replaced.
		This is used for bagging only.  Each of the models (total 
		number of models trained is equal to the value in iterate - 
		see below) has a different data set created from the training
		data set by replacing 'replacement' instances with copies of 
		other training instances from the remaining data.  For
		more information on bagging see the report or inline
		documentation for the class.  If not running the bagger
		then this value should be set to 0 or None.

iterate		The number of models that will be trained for bagging.
		Each of the models will be asked to predict the most likely
		sense during testing and then the most frequently predicted
		sense will be assigned.  If not running the bagger then this
		value should be set to 0 or None. 

corpus		An integer between 1 and 3 (inclusive), where 1 is the
		senseval corpus, 2 is the the de-news parallel corpus and 3 
		is the europarl parallel corpus. See the report (report.pdf) 
		in the assosciated documentation for more information on 
		these corpora.	

num_files	The number of files of the europarl corpus to use - an integer
		between 1 and 353 (inclusive). The europarl corpus is very 
		large, therefore the user can specify how many of the 353 
		files in the corpus to train on. If running the system with
		a different corpus this value should be set to 0 or None.

ambig_word 	One of "interest", "hard", "line" or "serve". The ambiguous 
		word to use (the system performs WSD on one word only). 
		Enter the full word. 

num_senses	The number of sense distinctions to make when training on one
		of the parallel corpora. For a language such as German 
		with many compound nouns, possible translations are 
		grouped into "senses" by common morphology. If using the 
		system with a different language that does not have these 
		compound constructions, set num_senses to 0, to get the 
		direct translation as a sense-tag. Naturally, in order to 
		disambiguate with sense-groupings (i.e. in German) this 
		should be set at 2 or more.  

For further information see report.pdf in the assosciated documentation.
