TIMIT CORPUS SAMPLE

This corpus contains a selection from the TIMIT Acoustic-Phonetic
Continuous Speech Corpus, consisting of speech files, annotations,
and associated materials:

* 16 speakers from 8 dialect regions
* 1 male and 1 female from each dialect region
* total 130 sentences (10 sentences per speaker; note that some
  sentences are shared among other speakers, sa1 and sa2
  are spoken by all speakers.)
* total 160 sentence recordings (10 recordings per speaker)
* audio format: wav format, single channel, 16kHz sampling, 16 bit sample, PCM encoding

LICENSE

This corpus sample is Copyright 1993 Linguistic Data Consortium,
and is distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution, Non-Commercial, ShareAlike license.  http://creativecommons.org/

TIMIT Corpus Description:

The TIMIT corpus of read speech is designed to provide speech data for
acoustic-phonetic studies and for the development and evaluation of
automatic speech recognition systems. TIMIT contains broadband
recordings of 630 speakers of 8 major dialects of American English,
each reading 10 phonetically rich sentences. The TIMIT corpus includes
time-aligned orthographic, phonetic and word transcriptions as well as
a 16-bit, 16kHz speech waveform file for each utterance. Corpus design
was a joint effort among the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
(MIT), SRI International (SRI) and Texas Instruments, Inc. (TI). The
speech was recorded at TI, transcribed at MIT and verified and
prepared for CD-ROM production by the National Institute of Standards
and Technology (NIST).

The TIMIT corpus transcriptions have been hand verified. Test and
training subsets, balanced for phonetic and dialectal coverage, are
specified. Tabular computer-searchable information is included as well
as written documentation.

Authors: John S. Garofolo, Lori F. Lamel, William M. Fisher,
  Jonathan G. Fiscus, David S. Pallett, Nancy L. Dahlgren, Victor Zue

http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/Catalog/CatalogEntry.jsp?catalogId=LDC93S1

The full corpus is available from the Linguistic Data Consortium
http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/
